educate yourself first before expecting
a black person to do it
why would i do that i've got malcolm x
at home
[Music]
morning mate just don't catch the 5k
feel like your mate
mo farah what are you doing then writing
some bars
uh no actually i'm i'm writing a book oh
a book about bars
didn't know i was living with two pack
it's actually a book on
how to talk about race oh nice and light
then
no no i mean it's about how white people
can talk to their black friends about
race
without saying anything offensive or
ignorance yeah i mean it's common sense
in it brav
what's chapter one then well chapter one
is educate yourself first before
expecting a black person to do it why
would i do that i've got malcolm x at
home
because i'm not malcolm x and i'm not
nauseous mandela and i don't have
a rousing speech to give every time
something racist happens oh no one said
it had to be arousing
what about chapter two then chapter two
is understand the different shapes of
racism all right pythagoras
well it just means that just because
you're not using the n-word it doesn't
mean what you're saying isn't offensive
to black people oh god there's a list
now
look remember yesterday when you're out
on the balcony sunbathing what did you
say to me i might get a backsack and
crack tomorrow before that
oh right i said i was nearly as black as
you right now you might think that's a
compliment but are you really ready to
take on the black experience what being
able to jump high and having a massive
package yes please
are you prepared to be constantly
profiled by the police and to miss out
on opportunities and
have old ladies cross the street because
of a skin color you can't change well i
can change it because it's a tan
exactly you get the skin color without
the experience
and that's not always the nicest thing
to highlight to a black person just
won't get a 10 next time then well no
it's not just a tan it's
lots of things it's you know touching
our hair without permission or
assuming that black women spend all day
twerking or that all black people like
chicken
oh what i was gonna make chicken
casserole for dinner i do like chicken
recipes i'm just saying i don't have kfc
being drip fed into my veins 24 7.
i see what's a chapter 3 out of interest
chapter 3 is sometimes it's better to
listen than to speak okay elaborate
please gandhi
basically when black people are talking
about the black experience white people
tend to do one of three things
they justify compare or deny well i
wouldn't because i'm not racist
i've watched django three times on
blu-ray well you're justifying because
i'm not even attacking you
you know you listening to me is worth
more than you telling me how racist
you're not but i do get the whole
black experience i got barred from a
club once because i had white air forces
on
you know it works both ways and now
you're comparing because
you know i get that you've had bad
experiences but piling them on top of
mine
isn't going to make me feel any lighter
talking to you i can't win
you know saying all this but you've got
a pretty good life you just sound
ungrateful you know britain's not as
racist as you're making it out to be you
cried last week because you got sent to
the back of the queue in tesco yeah well
that was unfair
and i've stood in the line i'd done
nothing wrong got sent to the back just
for no reason
and my hummus got all warm and runny you
followed all the rules you did exactly
what you're supposed to
and you still got treated unfairly i
can't imagine how that feels
i see what you're saying finally i
should have gone to morrison's no
einstein i'm saying that's how it feels
for black people sometimes
all right do i get a prize then for
doing all three of the things
justifying comparing and denying you've
got to take the bins out oh but it's
leaking
all that fried chicken i've been eating
dribbling out the bottom stop
sure you're okay taking a black bin out
oh very funny
you might as well put your book in there
whilst you're at it wouldn't be any room
for your chicken casserole then
i seriously take it out stinks